---
name: Amrut Prabhu
title: Privacy Policy
avatar: /static/images/avatar-small.jpg
avatarBig: /static/images/avatar-big.jpg
occupation: ""
company: Personal
email: smarthomecircle@gmail.com
twitter: https://twitter.com/amrutprabhu42
linkedin: "https://www.youtube.com/@SmartHomeCircle"
youtube: "https://www.youtube.com/@SmartHomeCircle"
github: https://github.com/smarthomecircle
---

Last Modified: June 15, 2023

<hr/>

https://SmartHomeCircle.com (hereinafter referred to as Service) is operated by Amrut Prabhu. To be compliant with data protection regulations, such as European General Data Protection Regulation, I’m required to explain to you everything about which personal data this Service is collecting, with whom it’s shared, and the reasons behind it.

This page informs you of our policies regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of personal data when you use this Service and the choices you have associated with that data.

We use your data to provide and improve this Service. By using this Service, you agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this policy.

## Definitions

<hr/>
- **Service**: Service is the https://SmartHomeCircle.com website operated by Amrut Prabhu.

- **Personal Data**: Personal Data refers to any data related to a user such as an email address, user name, IP address, etc., which could by itself or combined with other data help me identify the User

- **Usage Data**: Usage Data is data collected automatically either generated by the use of this Service or from this Service infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a page visit).

- **Necessary Personal Data** refers to the minimal amount of personal data required to satisfy legal requirements and to maintain the security, and integrity

- **Cookies**: Cookies are small files stored on your device (computer or mobile device).

## Types of Data Collected

<hr/>

### Personal Data

**_Collecting Usage Data is disabled by default and enabled only after the User gives consent when you press "I Accept"_**

While you use our Service, we may ask you to provide us with certain personally identifiable information that can be used to contact or identify you (“Neccessary Personal Data”). Personally identifiable information may include, but is not limited to:

- Name

- Email address

- Cookies and Usage Data

We may use your Personal Data to contact you with newsletters, marketing or promotional materials and other information that may be of interest to you. You may opt out of receiving any, or all, of these communications from us by following the unsubscribe link or the instructions provided in any email we send.

This service uses third-party services for various purposes

- **GitHub Pages** service hosts this service and collects _Neccesary Personal Data_.

- **Google Analytics** service helps to improve this service content by collecting and analyzing _Usage Data_.

### Cookies Data

We use cookies and similar tracking technologies to track the activity on this Service and it holds certain information.

Cookies are files with a small amount of data which may include an anonymous unique identifier. Cookies are sent to your browser from a website and stored on your device. Other tracking technologies are also used such as beacons, tags and scripts to collect and track information and to improve and analyse our Service.

When you press " I Accept" in the banner bellow, you agree with storage of cookies on your computer. You can instruct your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. However, if you do not accept cookies, you may not be able to use some portions of our Service.

## Use of Data

<hr/>
This service uses the collected data for various purposes:

- To provide and maintain this Service

- To notify you about changes to this Service

- To allow you to participate in interactive features of this Service when you choose to do so

- To gather analysis or valuable information so that we can improve this Service

- To monitor the usage of this Service

- To detect, prevent and address technical issues

## Service Providers

<hr/>

### MailerLite

This Service uses MailerLite as its email service provider.

MailerLite collects contact information, distributes emails, and tracks actions you take that assist us in measuring the performance of the website and emails. Upon subscription, MailerLite also tracks the pages you visit on the website.

The emails may contain tracking pixels. This pixel is embedded in emails and allows us to analyze the success of our emails. Because of these tracking pixels, we may see if and when you open an email and which links within the email you click.

This behavior is NOT passed to third parties. All data submitted at the time of subscription to our emails is stored on MailerLite’s servers. You may access MailerLite’s privacy policy [here](https://www.mailerlite.com/legal/privacy-policy).

At any time, you may be removed from our newsletter list by clicking on the unsubscribe button provided in each email.

### GitHub

This Service is hosted using [GitHub](https://github.com/)’s service called GitHub Pages. Their privacy policy regarding [GitHub Pages](https://docs.github.com/en/github/site-policy/github-privacy-statement#github-pages) states

> _... GitHub may collect User Personal Information from visitors to your GitHub Pages website, including logs of visitor IP addresses, to comply with legal obligations, and to maintain the security and integrity of the Website and the Service._

This means that GitHub collects minimal amount of Personal Data which they require for legal purposes. This is something neither me nor the User can avoid or disable. In addition, the Service and Amrut Prabhu have no access, overview, or control over this data. Using this Service implies the User agrees with this.

### Google Analytics

Google Analytics is a web analytics service offered by Google that tracks and reports website traffic. Google uses the data collected to track and monitor the use of our Service. This data is shared with other Google services. Google may use the collected data to contextualize and personalize the ads of its Google advertising network.

This Service uses Google Analytics to help in improving this Service, to view how the users interact with the service, the number of views, page engagements, website navigation, etc.

When you press "I Accept", you agree with this Service start using [Google Analytics](https://marketingplatform.google.com/about/analytics/) to analyze traffic to this Service.

Additional security measures were taken to ensure the privacy of the User’s Personal Data: accepting the terms of Google’s Data Processing Amendment, enabling an encrypted exchange of data by using HTTPS protocol, and enabling IP address anonymization for which [Google](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/2763052) states.

> _The IP anonymization/masking takes place as soon as data is received by Google Analytics, before any storage or processing takes place._

Due to taking all these extra security measures, Google Analytics collects the minimal amount of User’s basic Usage Data such as page views, outbound clicks, basic device information such as screen size, browser name and version, and operating system name and version.

**_This data is not shared with any other advertising platforms or any other third-party services._**

You can opt-out of having made your activity on this Service available to Google Analytics by installing the Google Analytics opt-out browser add-on. The add-on prevents the Google Analytics JavaScript (ga.js, analytics.js, and dc.js) from sharing information with Google Analytics about visits activity.

For more information on the privacy practices of Google, please visit the [Google Privacy & Terms](https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en) web page.

If you don't want this Usage data to be collected, You can anytime opt-out of this using the bellow button "Stop Collecting Data".

## Changes to This Privacy Policy

We may update our Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify you of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page.

We will let you know via email and/or a prominent notice on our Service, before the change becoming effective and update the “effective date” at the top of this Privacy Policy.

You are advised to review this Privacy Policy periodically for any changes. Changes to this Privacy Policy are effective when they are posted on this page.

## Opt-out

Pressing _Stop Collecting Usage Data_ button will stop all Usage Data from being collected and the notification _“By clicking “I Accept”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation and analyze site usage.“_ is going to reappear on the top of every page.

**_Visible notification means collecting Usage Data is disabled._**

Old User’s Cookies might remain in the browser’s local storage, however, they will not be used.

## Contact Us

In case you have anything to ask about the privacy policy you can contact me at [smarthomecircle@gmail.com](mailto:smarthomecircle@gmail)
